# 3 Lessons from my First Job

My first full-time job was working as a Software Engineer at YP and I'd like to share three lessons that stood out the most during my time there. From starting out as a clueless intern who had trouble getting Tomcat set up in Eclipse to being a strong contributor on my team, I developed quickly and saw lessons from books like Mythical Man Month lived out in a real development environment.

### Push for coding-heavy assignments

Live the [Quantity Over Quality Coding Horror blog post](https://blog.codinghorror.com/quantity-always-trumps-quality/). I learned the most from taking on heavy coding assignments that required me to learn new technology and write a lot of code, or read a lot of legacy code from older yet critical projects other team members wouldn’t want to touch with a ten-foot pole. I’m sure you have some legacy project floating around at your workplace with a similar story--be the person to accept the responsibility of maintaining that monster. Not only will others thank you for accepting responsibility over something important where maybe the previous maintainer left the company, but you’ll also learn a lot from studying the design of others and thinking about how to improve upon it. Even better if it involves technology you’re unfamiliar with, you’ll leave with not only a better understanding of system design as a whole but maybe even learn a new programming language/paradigm. I believe this was the most important factor in my growth. Writing a lot of code in the beginning is to kick start your 10,000 hour journey and start developing your heuristics about what good software looks like.

### Invest in testable design

Write your code in a QA-friendly way, for example by modularizing your code into separate ideally stateless functions. This will go a long way in easing refactoring time later on and being adaptable to changing product requirements. The confidence of being able to make code changes and validate them through a thorough test-suite is the secret sauce to rapid iteration. Thinking about test cases will also help other developers pick up on your projects if you ever have to leave the company, as they can make changes confidently by understanding the test cases you’ve written.

### Dream wildly with your 20% Time

While I was hired for primarily a backend role at YP, I was able to expand my breadth of knowledge greatly by taking on side projects outside my expected expertise. My favorite side project was overhauling our deployment process which previously consisted of dropping WAR files into special production VMs, to an automated process that utilized Docker and Mesos for containerized deployments. This unified our deployment process across multiple applications, made both dev and QA teams more confident in their releases, and I also learned a ton along the way. Even if you don’t work on side projects outside your primary role, just tinkering with new technologies that all the cool folks at HN talk about and seeing whether they might be useful for what you do is a great way to keep up to date with our rapidly evolving field. Biting the bullet and learning React over a weekend got my current job! 

